Merci.
Money for joining except if it's too
small for you.
Do you have the slides here?
You will have.
Actually, you have all the syllabus here,
you have even more than.
D'an what we will cover?
C'est t's with slide one.
Let's start them.
So this is the Big Picture.
Have you understand everything ?
I assume that you cannot read,
so this is actually the trajectory in the
course.
It is composed of four steps mainly,
first of all is modeling,
this is where we start.
We'll start with modeling to understand
how to organize data.
Imagine.
In thomas specifications,
he's talking about data data to store
within their process, and so
Be quiet, but I'm not surely,
it's all louder than you.
C'est I'm point you will need to start
data. We'll see later why and how,
but the modeling phase is crucial to
understand,
and if you want to use tools like Lovable,
for instance,
it's crucial to have some good
specifications because
Welcome Bhar
Lecture and half.
Lecture one,
lecture two and beginning of lecture two
will be dedicated to modeling.
Lecture two,
we will enter into the create statements,
into the creation of the physical
structure of our database.
So here we will have thoughts about what
data we need.
And here concrètement,
we will create a database with all what
is required to later store data.
So let's here talk about the structure on
the third step, we will see how to update.
Data, How to insert data,
How to delete data into the Rataud.
Hence.
Lecture three, remaining of lecture three.
Four,
five and six will not be here because
actually lecture six will be the exam.
C'est lecture four and five.
We will be completely focus on extracting
data from the database. OK,
so it's very simple in terms of
trajectory.
First we think about the model, then we.
Create the physical structure from the
model,
then we insert data into the structure,
and then we fetch data on the structure,
understood.
OK, by Said on lecture six,
you will have the exam.
Evaluation will be done on data
extraction.
Francois, first of all,
it's the most used skills in terms of
database you would have to have in your
later job, and secondly,
it's as well the most efficient for me to
evaluate.
Ewan.
How will it take place?
I will provide you a database one week
before the exam.
Obi.
In this Das Base,
we did a database for the exam,
which means that you can spend your week
trying to find all the potential queries
that will be present on the exam on the
exam day, it will be open book.
C'est b
So that means that if you have prepared,
I don't know, 100 queries,
you will be able to bring that.
C'est what is not a load is.
Sharing data with students during the
exam,
but you can share data with students
before the exam, that's it are allowed.
OK, but during the exam,
there's no communication with students
and ChatGPT will not be allowed. ChatGPT,
go
[ Fill/] Quentin Quentin Quentin Quentin
[ S
Clouds.
Google, Mistral.
OK,
so I think you'll have understood what I
mean.
So no Gil native AI and no communication
with students,
but all the propositions that you will
have made is available, OK?
Do you have questions regarding the
trajectory?
No question on the exam.
You're very quiet, very quiet group, good,
let's see if it continues.
Ewan Dia
I will have you lots,
you will have a lot of lectures with me,
so I hope that you will like me because
otherwise it will be long and painful.
Why do we need databases?
Because your goal here is to design
applications,
at some point you have to save data,
and this is why we talk about data basis.
What's the other option?
It's to store data within files,
for instance.
Let me know why is that a bad idea to
store data within a file compared to a
database?
Has Bhargavy Databases?
Is Cure Database.
No SQL.
Ten Interesting. Okay,
so you'll have a bit of experience
already. We'll see what remains.
So why can you justify why we need the
database in a book to save the
I can Quentin Das Noura Noura Noura Noura
Noura Noura Noura Noura Noura Noura Noura
Noura Noura Noura Nou
C'est ndong,
which means that someone else can connect
to the same data and see the data from my
application.
Why is that a good candidate to save data
compared to a fact? C'est structured.
If the structure is enforced, yes,
from the beginning, we need to adopt.
The structure which is standardized, okay,
which is not necessarily the case here.
Relation also,
we can have relationships between data,
okay,
but we could have relationships between
data at the file level as well.
It's only that we have to implement it
ourselves. Okay, so that's more effort.
Concurrency, yes, that's the last point.
Ewan, if I want to be able to access data.
which are potentially shared across
different programs.
I have a concurrence issue because
potentially I can update data at the same
time as another program is trying to read
or write the same data.
[.
So I don't know for you guys,
but I have some colleagues developers
that don't like databases.
They want to avoid databases by any way
possible,
but actually the other options is fine
and fine is not very fancy as well.
OK,
so I agree that sometimes it's a bit
heavy,
but we need to know databases if we want
to build an application.
The good news is that from two,
three years now, thanks to generative AI.
Ha Data Access Layer is way more way
easier to write than before because one
of the.
Bonjour.
De.
Aspect of accessing data program is
usually a source of error because you
have to map data which is represented
here in the program.
C'est converts the specifications from
the user features exposed by the program
to something that connects to the
database. So thanks to Gil native AI,
it's way faster to write and way easier
to test as well.
Bout,
trying to enter into the manual test mode.
So we'll see that in second semester,
in third semester actually,
because you will have Java with me and
advanced Java with me and.
Jérémie Has
Good.
So yes, we need to store query data.
It's the advantage is that we have a
transparent implementation for the user.
I can tell you that even non-technical
people can do SQL. Francis,
my sister is a financial director.
In her company,
and she's doing SQL every day to extract
data, to extract report,
to build our custom reports, et cetera.
So you see,
it's not a skill that belongs only to
software and to software engineers.
Aurelien Das Centist,
it's a skill that even business persons
can have.
We have three different languages and it
corresponds to the strategy I exposed as
well a little bit.
We have a first step where we need to
model data,
so to find what data we need to represent
and to create the corresponding structure.
In the database,
we have a language where we modify data,
modify and with search data,
so this is the I would say the second
step, then we have.
We have as well the data control language,
which allows you to give constraints and
at the same time to give to manage
accesses.
To the data.
We will not see that so much,
except for the constraint.
So some examples of the DDL.
So the first language create alter drop
it's actually you see we are acting at
the we are playing at the structure level
data structure level here we are.
Planting at the instance level,
one instance, one observation,
one rule of the table,
we'll see that later,
actually can be modified thanks to this,
or can be such.
Thanks to this and the Dil
C'est joe to remove access to some data
so that we can have a better control over
our data.
So you see that with the database,
we can do whatever is necessary to to be
handled regarding the data of my
application.
Noura the table structure.
This is a table.
Do you see what Excel, right?
I see an Excel file.
I mean,
the table is composed of attributes,
or columns, and rules,
Ewan, yeah.
Wa,
instance of the entity that we are trying
to represent,
how can be named the entity we are seeing
here?
What is represented here?
Countries, so we could give.
De Name, Kalonji to be stable.
What's the type of each column string
first is should look like a d
On two characters.
So we'll see later what's the types etc.
OK, just as a small reference,
because I don't like to go through all
the documentation of the database et
cetera, but as a small reference,
these are the sometimes we can find
databases, you have here the three first.
We shall dedicated to Dex.
C'est Axel Jérémie.
OK,
it's the maximum number of letters of
characters we can find.
Here you can see two types related to
numbers for presentation.
And we have.
As well dates.
Time stop, date, time, et cetera,
so various things to represent date,
so do not represent date with that char.
OK, don't do that, it's very bad.
Reflex, it's a very bad idea,
because we have brigitte types to
represent. Okay,
and then we have some more specific types
like Jason, Ib
Jason is to represent.
Javed text,
which can be actually directly queried
from the database language,
so that means you can have Javed text
into a column and what's the advantage of
Javed?
Do you know Jason already?
Who doesn't know about Jason?
T's not bad.
C'est not a bad thing. Okay.
Jason is a way to store data within text,
and the good thing about Jason is that it
is extensible,
so you can have actually a variable.
C'est un json document,
it's not standardized,
it's not specified in Adams,
which means that you can have an
extension here to have some unstructured
data saved still into your.
La Dastre.
So it's a bit of flexibility that that
that is met to the developer and blob is
for binary large object,
which actually we don't want so much to
have.
We would prefer some storage like file
system or s three buckets or things like
this to store our binary files.
No question about this.
The principle of relational databases is
to create references between data.
Create relationships between data.
Instance here.
We have our countries table,
and here we have the cities table,
and we can see that all those cities are
pointing to the same country,
which is France. How is Lone Dre
We have a common value between the two
tables.
The common value is this defined by this
column.
OK,
and we can find here that on this column,
we have a reference to this table thanks
to the fact we have an equality in this
column and this cell value.
So it's like when you want to create a
reference,
you don't want to rewrite everything,
you just write the ID.
And thanks to this ID,
you can find the reference in another
table. Do you understand? Yes, it's.
Correspondent system,
so when you have a value here,
the this value here corresponds to this
row here.
What's the principle of basis we have ?
EPITA EP
It's either passing or not passing,
but it does not leave the database in the
intermediate state, you know,
you have begun to write.
C'est it's not totally written,
which can be a case when you have when
you use a file,
when you use a file and something is
interrupting the process,
then the file may be correct.
It's normally not possible with database.
We have consistency.
Ais which means that we have normally the
ability to design constraints that
enforces is consistency, for instance.
If we go back to the previous slide.
We should not see.
Quentin Fall, gear because of course,
there's no corresponding value into the
target table. OK,
so this is part of the consistency
enforcement.
Isolation, which means that we can do.
Several operations in a concurrent way
and it should not break and durability,
even if you have, I mean,
an operating system crash,
your data are saved in the in the
persistent storage.
And normally you should not lose anything.
A small focus on normalization
normalization is the process that we will
try to follow.
Up to at least the second normal form,
you will see,
but what is important is to understand
that we need to create references and
relationships instead of duplicating data.
Here you have an example.
Of not denormalized.
Representation.
Have a look to the others.
Tu sais, là tu me have lot of.
C'est actually the only variant things is
the last part, the product name.
This is not corresponding to a normal
form,
this is not second normal form compatible
because here we have some.
Things that could be stored within a
dedicated table.
We could have the table customer.
Diane We make a reference to the problem
to the customer item instead of repeating
the customer information.
Das an advantage, t'aime,
to have redondances.
Can you tell me in that specific example,
what could be the advantage?
You don't need anything else,
all the data are present in the same
table.
So if you have a dump of this table,
you can work as standalone,
which means that probability is faster as
well. French so.
It's always a trade-off between speed.
Hands consistency,
and you cannot have both at the same time,
or you can have maximum speed,
but with lower consistency or high
consistency, but with a lower speed, OK.
C'est mimets of the hardware,
limits of the software which is behind,
that allows, doesn't allow you to have,
for instance, on Amazon,
they are using a lot of redondancy to
make sure that people can.
So their objective is that people
customers can buy the items,
even if the item is not.
Noura the stock is not up to date,
so they focus on speed and possibility to
have the user interface responsive.
Even if we have a small,
some small faulty scenarios that can
exist.
In our case,
we will try to always have the highest
consistency possible,
and then we will see later if we need to
optimize, OK?
So just to go back on normal forms,
we have here the first normal form,
which is that we should not have.
Multivalued attributes,
what is multi-valued attributes is for
instance here.
If I take back the customer and I want to
represent the orders directly in the
customer table,
it's not good because it means that the
customer has a column with that contains
all the list of orders it has made,
that is not good.
OK,
so no multi value maximum one value pair
column for one row.
The 2nd normal form is that we should not
have any redundancy like this.
So instead of repeating again and again
the same values,
we should have a reference created.
OK,
the third normal form is that we should
not create dependencies of something
which is not.
Representing I give an example instead of.
Very bad idea of dependency using non-key.
is that if I try to represent the
students by their last name instead of
students by their ID
Last name,
we can have plenty of collisions of same
names, right?
If I take the history of all the students
at EPITA from the 10 last years,
I will probably find 5100 people sharing
the same name because
De volume, it's normal, OK ?
So if I create dependencies on non-key
attributes,
it means that I will create some
dependencies on something that would
potentially match a lot of different
students, which is not good.
If I want to give a dependency on
something, I will use the identifier.
d'attent.
What's your identifier as a student?
Student I.
So, if I'm using the student I.
I'm sure that behind each student there's
only one student, OK,
so we try to converge to this normal form,
even if sometimes you need to do some
smaller justice.
And the third,
the last one is actually what is.
Remaining in terms of anomalies.
We will not talk about it,
let's focus on the third on the three
first.
Okay, some kinds of relationships.
One to one, one to many, many to many.
For instance,
you have your person passport,
one person has exactly one passport and
one passport belongs to exactly one
person, one too many,
one customers or others,
and many too many,
lots of students can take lots of courses.
Interesting.
OK,
comparison between databases and files.
Files is good to start a small project,
but as soon as you need to scale,
you need to have a database,
and that's the conclusion.
OK, let's switch that.
Let's go now for the for the setup of
what we will use.
No this semester.
OK, so just go on ebay,
sell your Mac and buy Windows machine or
Linux machine. OK,
and even you can buy three machines for
the same price. OK so no,
it's a joke of course,
but we'll have two strategies here.
Who has a Linux machine ?
OK,
so three strategies because three
different operating systems.
OK, so for Let's start with Windows.
You have a link here.
Keir,
this is the common path for everybody.
You go on the slides at slides,
I don't remember.
T's go back at slide slide 23,
you have a link to download my sequel,
so you click on it.
And you take eight or forty four ?
Ok.
For Windows persons,
you don't take the installer,
you don't take the installer OK,
so you take the zip distribution.
You download.
You don't log in.
You don't login.
I repeat,
because I know from the three last group
that's.
OK, it gives you this archive.
We'll go back a bit later.
Let's talk about other systems on Mac.
It's pretty simple because you have no
choice.
B Ford twenty twenty.
No OK so that's good.
Normally everybody is using an RMRM
distribution so you download this.
Yes they can use docker OK but for Mac.
It's very good,
I mean, you don't load, you install,
the only thing that you have to remember
is my users have listen to me.
During the installation process,
you will be forced to set up a user and a
password.
Just remember the password because
otherwise you will not have to redo the
whole installation again. OK,
so you will be prompted at some point to
use.
A user to set up a username and a
password. Remember the username,
normally it's simple,
it's prefilled with root,
so you don't touch at it,
and the password is the one that you will
input.
If you don't remember that password,
you will not be able to do.
The connection later, OK,
now let's talk about the Linux.
Oui.
OK, but it's preferable to have my.
Yes, but it's not exactly the same, no.
Normally,
you can install on Arc Linux because I
have some proof that it works from the
previous semester.
Ok.
Do do what you want, but for the exam,
I will require to use my secret.
You can do, I will tell you something, OK,
just to be clear,
the exam is designed on my sequence, OK.
As long as you use MySQL to train,
to practice and to verify your exam
queries.
I'm OK. And even if you don't, I'm OK.
It's only that the greats will not maybe
be on power with what you expect. OK,
the thing here, why we use my SQL,
because it's not because I like my SQL.
I don't care.
I like postgre SQL, I like Oracle,
I like my SQL, I like my ADB.
It's the thing that it works on all the
systems that usually students have. OK,
so I know that it works.
On the exam day,
because you had you did not ask,
you will be provided with 20 queries to
write 20 data extraction queries.
Stop, no, no,
there's no need to use STAR procedure.
It's very basic. It's basic queries,
basic SQL queries.
So when I say basic is that it will use
only what is on in the in the course and
nothing which is.
Exotic or whatever.
Why am I saying that?
Because I will provide the database,
you will have to install the database on
your computer.
One week before the exam,
you will have one week to prepare the
exam.
A week to prepare SQL queries.
If it works well on your computer, I mean,
when I ask a query to write,
you will be provided with the expected
eraser. If it works well on the computer,
you and you submit it.
To the exam.
I mean, the query, not the result. No,
then I take the query,
I execute on my computer.
And if it matches what I'm expecting,
you have full mark. If it is not running,
you have zero.
If you have it's running but not giving
the exact results,
you will have something in between zero
and one depending what you have.
I will give you the criteria.
Bonjour,
if you have the correct structure,
it's point three.
If you have the correct data,
it's point three.
If you have the correct column names but
no data, it's point three as well.
OK, so if you combine everything,
it's only point nine,
but if you have all the criteria that are
matched, it's even more than one. It's 1.
2 because I know it's difficult to write
a query perfectly like what is expected.
So if you have.
Missed the objectif,
you can still have marks.
Following the criteria I've just cited.
So for the structure, for the order,
for the for the data. OK guys, understood.
So this is why I'm pushing you to use my
SQL because the exam will rely on.
The fact that you have a My SQL database
on your computer.
Ok, then if you use online service to do.
If you use online service to have your my
SQL,
if you use docker to do your my SQL
Server, if you use whatever,
which is a my SQL Server,
I'm happy for you. I don't care. OK,
understood.
I want you to be able to run some my SQL.
Query.
Before some meeting on the exact.
Is that clear ?
OK, non.
The question is, will I judge of the ?
The syntax,
the organisation of the query or the
optimization in terms of time of response
time ? No, the answer is no,
but there's a limit which is set to 30
seconds per query.
If it goes over 30 seconds par query on
my computer, which is really powerful,
it means that there's a there's a problem
in your query,
so too much things which are not which
are fetched in the bad way.
Interest tout.
OK, so you can use docker,
you can use whatever you want,
you can use as well.
What I'm proposing for Linux guys,
it depends on your distribution.
So find if there's a MySQL packet within
your installation who is using Linux
already.
Soy.
two, three, there was three people.
Fifteen minutes ago,
there were three people and now there's
only two people,
someone reinstall Windows.
In between OK, so.
Is that clear? OK,
try to install if you have some issues.
Of course,
this is why we are doing it from the
start from the first session is that now
you have four remaining session to ask me
about how to install.
Don't do like three students.
In the last semester,
they came to the exam with no MySQL
installed on their computer,
meaning that I don't know-how they have
practiced or what they have done during
the sessions, but we will use as well.
Das que.
Good, so I'm showing on Windows.
Probably it could work as well on some
Linux with the right dependencies.
Let's have a look.
To what I got on Windows.
I will create in my.
Storage.
The new folder.
That's only my organization,
you are not forced to use the same.
Bout what is important is that the
database does not run from a temporary
folder, a one drive folder or whatever,
because it may create some issues,
the first issue being to wipe out all the
data by mistake.
I will unzip.
Normally you you have this.
This is the structure.
Of my sequence folder in the bin folder.
You will open this the command line.
How do we do this CMD in the address bar ?
K, and then you have to type two things,
my SQLD.
Initialize.
Insecure.
What does it do?
I know that there's this bad word
insecure inside.
It's that we don't want password for root,
so this is a development setup.
What will it do?
My SQL d dash dash initialize will
initialize the.
System database that will drive the
engine, the system, the database engine.
If you don't do this,
you will not be able to start.
I repeat that only applies on Windows or
Linux who are able to which are able to
run without installation.
OK,
congratulation you you have a new way to
initialize your database now.
OK, this is a portable way to use it.
No installation. OK,
so now you copy paste your database,
you put it on another computer, it works.
OK, so that's a developer way to do it.
We don't,
we don't want to install things and now
you can initialize.
You can run the database.
OK,
so he does not run because I have another
instance already running here from the
previous group, so.
The good results is when you have this
that blinks.
So that's very good for lightweight
installation.
Imagine you are working as a developer on
MySQL,
you just have this command line to run,
it runs whenever you stop, it stops.
Why are we doing that?
Because we have initialized with Insecure.
C'est vrai que t's good,
t's t's not staying a live at all time.
Okay,
I mean on Windows machine because on
Linux and Mac probably you will have no
choice than to set up the password.
Is that OK, guys? Understood?
Are you at this step for Windows users?
Not yet,
so try to recover and to be at this level.
On my users.
Have you gone through the installer? OK,
it's running as well. OK, good.
Now the other side,
because here we are on the server side.
Now we want to be.
To be able to manipulate data,
we have two choices,
either the console mode,
which is not really easy for me,
I prefer to have what we call an ID,
an integrated development environment.
That will be able to manage files here
again,
I know that you will struggle a little
bit against me to use what you are
already used to use,
which is for instance, my SQL workbench.
VS code or the my SQL client command line.
You do what you want. I don't care. OK,
I don't care guys.
I'm showing you what I think is the best
for you to learn SQL or to review SQL if
you already know and my recommendation
here.
Is to use debiver.
It's the database browser which allows
you to access the database. Here again,
I recommend you use a zip file.
So that you have no trace on your system,
on your system.
So you download the zip file.
What do you use?
I don't know because I.
I don't know it for my sequel.
No, you have the my SQL workbench.
You have three things.
If you want to have graphical tools
provided by my SQL,
you have the configuration studio,
the my SQL configuration studio.
Which is where you can know what database
is running, et cetera.
But here we don't care because we have
lightweight and you have the my SQL
workbench. It is not bad,
but first of all,
it does not work on all the Mac setup and
it does not work on Linux.
So that's what is the Microsoft Microsoft
you can have Microsoft as well,
but I'm showing what I want. OK,
the one that I'm providing here is cross
platform as well.
J'ai so you can work with whatever
database and it's portable,
it's the same tool on Mac, on Windows,
on Linux,
so I'm sure that all the students can
follow as well.
Once you have it.
You can as the same time copy.
OK,
so this is what you get when you extract
and you have a dbver.
exe file double click on it.
To let you know it's it's relatively used.
In.
In lots of companies.
Ewan Welcom
Si.
I you don't. OK,
so you can use it wherever Java is
installed,
which is good because I can tell you if
you have ever worked with banques,
with insurances, with whatever,
you cannot install anything.
If you have Java,
you can run this without any installation
permission.
So this is a good thing to have in your
mind if you can choose some software
which is based on Java.
You can make sure to run it everywhere,
almost everywhere,
because usually Java is authorized,
it's corrected to run on all the
computers,
even on restricted security computers,
okay.
Diane. So this is why
Hafsaan,
if you choose a set of tools that are
used using Java, you can have.
Everything that you know,
even in some locked computes.
This is how it looks like. And today,
what we will do,
the only thing that we will do is to
check that we have access to the database.
Deep in mind that your your database
lives here. If you close this, it's over.
The database server does not run anymore,
OK ?
How to create connection to the database.
You see that it's you can have lots of
databases providers.
Here we will use MySQL.
You click on next, you change nothing,
you click on test connection.
It will say that you need some drivers
you download.
And you see that the test is successful,
you do just do finish.
And you can browse.
Your database engine from jet.
Nothing very special.
The only thing that that is good compared
to the common line to me is that you have
this system of.
Bookmarks and the system of storing your
scripts directly, like an ID,
like what you would do with VS code with
intelligent,
you do Java with VS Visual Studio if you
do c Sharp or whatever.
OK,
which is very good for our organisation
of things.
Ok,
so you know that you are successful when
you have this green check.
Let's do 10 minutes.
Jordy, mute we try to do,
try to have mistake after that,
we do a very small one. OK,
so 11 forty three,
you try to install your system,
you try to have this.
Because the version that is provided here
is eight or forty four.
The one that I require you to download is
eight or forty four,
not nine five something. OK,
so download the right version if you are
on Windows.
I recommend, but here again,
that's only a recommendation to use the
zig distribution so that it leaves no
trace on your system.
It's only a file folder in your system.
Once you are done with the paws,
you can just remove it.
EPITA K
Oui, yes.
Ok, I'm not running.
S
C'est bien, Jordy.
Drexler,
you land on Drexler website and you have
the Community Edition.
Yes.
Otherwise,
you can follow what's in the slides.
OK,
some people will have some issues like.
Public key retrieval is not allowed.
You have normally a driver properties tab
in the connection.
You have a low public key retrieval,
you can pass it to true.
And once you pass it to true,
you should not be annoyed anymore with
that.
C'est 10 Min.
Alexandre.
C'est b
Bien, Noura, Noura.
OK, let's take a break for 10 minutes.
C'est un jabre.
Put
Si.
Oui.
Musa.
Merci.
Ewan.
Si.
OK, so let's not waste.
Or spend more time on this now because as
I said, we will not use it for real today.
It will start next lecture.
What is important is that you make sure
you are you are reaching this state by
the next lecture.
Which is, I don't remember when,
but probably next week.
If you have questions, if you have issues,
let me know. We will discuss Noura is.
As I said,
it's only a proposed way to work.
What is very important though,
is that you have the same database.
Server and the same database version
installed because I will tweak the exam
on this specific version OK,
and I will access as well your work on
this database.
Ok.
Let's go for the second lecture.
So you can click on this link.
C'est pas de.
Ok, what?
Do now it's ER modeling,
so mainly what we do today is to.
OK,
what we will do now is to model find some
model from some specifications,
and for that we need to identify usually
entities, attributes,
relationships and cardinalities.
Let me explain exactly.
What is this ?
It's the way we will structure the data.
An entity will later become a table or
something equivalent.
The attributes will become columns.
The relationship will become foreign keys.
And cardinality is only to for us to have
an idea of how much rules,
how many rules from each side of each
table are connected together.
So, for instance,
this is the cross foot notation.
Of database model.
In this course with notation.
You see that we have.
Gross food,
this is why it's called Gross food,
because you have connectors that look
like gross foods, OK,
but mainly in the connectors,
we see the entities which are linked
together,
and we see as well the cardinality
directly on the connector.
I give one example here,
if we zoom a little bit on this.
With We can see that a professor teaches
some sections.
One section can be taught by exactly one
professor here.
One professor can teach from zero to many
sections. OK,
so you we see that the connector which is
here.
Has some information that is important to
have in mind when it will be time to
create the links.
Do you remember what I say was forbidden
due to normalization?
What I say would be forbidden.
We can say that a professor can teach
many sections.
When you have this three.
Branch connectors, it means men.
What is the impact of having many on this
side?
If we want to follow the diagram,
the model,
it means that we will have at some point
multivalued things,
but we said it was not possible.
Hopefully here in the other way we have
one section which can be taught by only
one professor.
That means that what that means that the
link can be stored by the section itself,
the section.
As a reference to exactly one professor.
If we create the link in that direction,
it means that we are compatible with the
normal form.
If you have not understood everything,
that's okay,
because the only thing that I want you to
think about is when you are giving
cardinalities,
it's not only to make it fancy,
it's because it will have an impact when
you create the link physically.
In du database, 2 tut.
So this is why we are taking some time to
identify the links and how many instances
of each table are connected together.
So let's have a look,
here we have zero many,
here we have one one,
you see that first sign.
A sign is the lower boundary and the
second sign is the upper boundary.
So here we can see that you can say that
a professor can have at minimum zero
section and maximum one section can have
minimum.
One professor, one teacher, one professor,
sorry, and maximum one professor,
so that means exactly one, one minimum,
one maximum means exactly one.
Das tout.
OK, so that's only un exemple.
Diagram has been made.
Thanks to M
Marques maid already Marques maid. Yes,
some of you may be may know about it.
It's pretty recent that they have support
for entity relationship diagram since one
one version it is supported,
which is very cool for us.
C'que j'dis, j'dis, Jordy, Jordy, Jordy,
Jordy, Jordy, Jordy, Jordy, Jordy, Jordy,
Jordy, Jordy.
I will show you what I mean.
I will open.
The Mermaid Live Editor.
And what is interesting for us is the
entity relationship.
You are developers, right ?
Do you don't care about writing text to
render diagram?
Bout some of your colleagues from other
tracks,
they are a bit frustrated by doing that.
Let me explain what's the big advantage
of that. You focus on the what?
and not on how it will look like. So here,
we will focus on the data that are
present in this diagram,
and if it renders correctly, we are happy,
but if it's not perfect, it's not bad.
What is important is what is inside.
Let's have a look on the syntax itself.
You see that to render a near diagram,
we need to have.
Avec notre zoom.
To have an ear diagram,
we need to start with ear diagram.
Honestly,
I'm not knowing perfectly the syntax of
mermaid for entity relationship diagram,
but I have the samples here,
so when I click on the entity
relationship, it will load display.
Premate diagram and then.
We have two steps.
You see that here I have only the names
of the entities,
not their attributes here.
I'm setting up links between those
entities and you see that the syntax
which is here.
Looks roughly like what we have here.
We have two bars, two bars, some link,
some link,
and one 0 and something that looks like
brofoot. OK, that's only two branches,
not three.
Bout it's equivalent, OK,
so actually here we have described the
link which is here by.
this text.
Et so it goes very fast.
To add new entities,
because if I want here, for instance,
to have employee.
Employee appears directly,
and if I want to say that an employee
manages one customer,
it goes very fast to set up a link with
customer and to say.
One customer is managed by exactly one
employee and one employee can manage from
one.
Sorry, one too many.
Customers.
Of course, I need to have these small,
these small comments.
Bhargavantage, joe focus on what you need,
not how it looks like.
Understood.
This diagram that you have seen just
before.
It is made with mermaid, yes.
I spent almost.
0 seconds to have a look of what it looks
like,
because I knew that what is important is
what is in the diagram and not how it how
it renders.
Okay,
so do you understand the crowfoot
notation? I mean, the links themselves.
Yes, so let's have a review just.
Zero or one is this ?
Exactly one 0 to many many. Well,
sometimes you can have lower boundaries
or upper boundaries without having the
lower one.
Just one point about how to read the link,
because here I say one too many,
et cetera, et cetera,
but actually it's not exactly clear where.
From where I'm placing myself.
I have this one one here.
It can be read only from the seed
perspective.
When I'm on the seat.
I'm looking at the opposite concept,
which is the student here,
and I'm looking at this cardinality,
so one seat can be linked from one to one
student.
No,
if I'm looking at the student versus six,
one student can have from zero to many
seats.
So it's always it as a direction.
No, so.
Is not.
Maybe familiar to you,
but you have to go on to this, OK?
So for instance, if section,
if I want to describe section of
professor.
One section is linked to how many
professors exactly one. OK,
I'm not looking at it. If I'm a professor,
how many sections can I teach? 0 to many.
Dasot. So it's always from one entity.
I'm looking at the opposite and I look at
the connector connected to the opposite
concept. OK, otherwise I will be wrong.
OK,
you see now that in the close foot
notation,
we have the structure as well of the
entities,
the attributes that I was talking about.
Each attribute has a name, it has a type.
And it can have some specific keys
attached to it.
We will see after what is what are the
different keys,
but here the PK which is here means
primary key and primary key means that
this field.
Is supposed to be the unique identifier
for this student.
Do you have questions regarding the cross
notation?
I think it needs practice,
but on the concept.
It's a set of connectors.
I think you have understood how to read
the connectors. And within each entity,
we have the structure.
How do we know what is inside?
We cannot guess. Actually,
it's from the specification.
You are provided with a set of
specifications.
And from the specification, you have to.
Analyze the specification and understand
that you need to have those data to
manage.
No that you are experts in cross foot
notation, you are experts, no.
Duan, OK.
Good, so.
I would I it's the same thing here.
I recommend to use mermaid JS,
but it's not mandatory.
Should prefer to use another tool that
you are already used to.
I'm not against what comes.
is that you are understanding what you
are doing and that you are providing some
good results.
Le doctor can be scheduled for many
appointments,
but may not have any schedule at all.
Each appointment is scheduled with
exactly one doctor.
C'est Jordy to represent that first
sentence in mermaid jess.
So here in the first sentence, we have.
Lucas.
End appointments.
Doctor.
End appointments.
What's the relationship here ?
One doctor can be scheduled for many
appointments,
but may not have any scheduled at all one
doctor.
Can be scheduled for many appointments,
but may not have any schedules.
What does that mean?
That means that the lower boundaries.
Zero.
In the max is main.
So that will be on the from the doctor to
appointments, we have zero many,
now we need to to fetch.
L'information for the 2nd part,
each appointment is scheduled with
exactly one doctor,
exactly one means double bar One to One.
OK,
it does not like my syntax because I
forgot to place a comments,
so even if you don't have anything to say
here, you have to have at least quotes.
And that's it,
you have your doctors and appointments,
OK ?
Then.
We can do the same patient,
can schedule one on my appointments,
et cetera, et cetera. OK, so I give you.
Just the beginning and I would like you
to work for 10 minutes,
maybe just to have a proposal to submit
to me.
C'est T We can discuss about it.
No.
Ah, demande en attente.
You can work together, you can talk,
you can move, that's not, that's not bad,
you can.
Oui.
Bhargav.
Aravind.
A rien.
Iris.
Chun.
Rahman.
A Kim.
Et mon.
Jordy.
Janice.
Isabel.
Joshua.
Elid.
Khalid.
Ma.
Muhammad.
Muhammad Najou Moudine.
Muhammad Ewan chat.
Muhammad danish.
Muhammad Omer.
Navine, 24.
Prachin.
Obaid.
Lisa.
Rahman, nikam, sorry, Rahman, nikam.
Roshan.
Samedi.
Su.
J'y va.
Shengkang.
Swetha.
Fran.
Trithikraj.
Axeluwatomi.
Zulnurain.
Vaishnavi.
Jérémie, Jérémie, Jérémie ?
Jordy.
OK, so let's go on.
A patient can schedule one or more
appointments.
One appointment is scheduled with exactly
one patient.
A patient can schedule one or more
appointment.
One appointment is scheduled with exactly
one patient.
So here we are talking about patients.
End appointments patients.
Su.
What, what should I write here?
One.
Exactly one, OK.
And one patient can have all many
appointments.
Bien.
Avec 10.
One appointment must generate exactly one
bill.
A bill is generated by only one
appointment.
An appointment must generate exactly one
bill and the bill is generated with one
appointment.
So here we are talking about appointments.
En bills.
So here it seems to be.
Exactly One One.
Tu.
One, one.
OK.
vigouroux ndong ndong ndong ndong ndong
ndong ndong ndong ndong ndong ndong ndong
n
Want does that mean?
That means that it's not mandatory to
have payments when we have a bill,
so somewhere there would be a zero,
this is what it means.
So here we are talking about bills.
P
One deal.
One payments, sorry,
can have exactly one bill.
One payments can have exactly one bill.
One bill can be concerned by many
payments, but it can be outstanding,
which means that should not be
necessarily connected to.
At least one payment can exist without
any payment.
So it's zero here and many here.
Ok.
Who is making the payments?
Is this the question ?
One patient can make many payments,
but the single payment is made by only
one patient.
Patients.
I can do many payments.
We may not have any at all.
So it's zero many here.
And one payments.
Is done by ?
Something like this.
Oh, sorry, it's here.
Single payment is made by only one
patient, some patients are insured.
[They can only carry insurance with one
company.
So here we are talking about patients and
insurance.
How many insurances a patient can have ?
Exactly one.
How many patients an insurance can have ?
0.
Comment ?
Yes,
but one patient can have exactly one
insurance,
one insurance can handle many patients.
But maybe it can be registered without
without having to have at least one
patient.
Good, are we done ?
We are almost done.
Some patients are insured by an insurance
company. If they are insured,
they can only carry insurance with one
company. An insurance company can have.
Can can have many patients OK for
patients that carry insurance,
the insurance company will make payments.
Each single payment is made by exactly
one insurance.
So an insurance can make many payments.
Do we agree on this connector and one
payments, when it is made,
it's either by the patient or the
insurance,
but when it is made by the insurance,
it is made by exactly one insurance.
Good.
C'est une chance,
une chance will make the payments.
Good.
So this is what we have.
Do you like it?
Non, not the same.
Okay. Where? Everywhere.
OK, here we are placing ourself,
one patient can make many payments.
So, but it can can be outstanding,
so potentially one patient has not paid
anything yet.
So this is why we have the zero here.
And when you take the appointment,
you're patient,
but you have not paid anything yet.
So this is normal, OK.
And one payment is made by exactly one
patient, OK.
But here we have an issue.
Because.
Gil it is 6 if I take one payment and I
look around.
We are connected to Bills.
To patients and to insurances.
If I look at patients and insurances,
it's at the same time connected to one,
exactly one.
Patients and to one exactly one insurance.
OK,
but we say it that when we had the
patient which was insured,
it is not paying anything,
it's directly linked to the insurance.
So we have an issue here.
I would like you to tell me.
How to solve this ?
Not now, next time.
OK, so for next time,
try to have a look to two things.
First of all, try to fill the boxes.
I will share with you this this diagram,
try to fill the boxes and try to find how
we can solve the inconsistency that is
here.
For now,
the payment can be made is supposed to be
linked to at the same time,
a patient and an insurance.
We say that it was one or the other,
not both at the same time, so tell me.
Try to find a solution, yes.
You want to remove the connexion,
but how do we know ?
C'est d'ailleurs, I find another entity,
it will be the same problem between this
entity and patient and insurance.
We have to.
We do next time you propose the model.
Propose a modèle where we have not this
inconsistency here.
Really what? Yes,
you prepare something and we discuss
about it, about the solutions.
OK, and at the same time,
what you do is that you fill the boxes
here with the attributes.
As the first example we have seen,
try to find some some potential
attributes limit yourself to four maximum.
Four attributes maximum pair entity.
Let me share this with you and we are
done for today.
So for next time, three things,
find the problem,
find the solution for the problem of
inconsistency, payment to patience,
payment to insurance.
Fill the attributes for each entity and
make sure, if it's not already the case,
that your system,
your database system is operational.
Meaning that you have your database
server and a database client which is
able to connect, OK.
Is that good in your mind?
Good bon appétit.